# Kosmos
The AI scientist [Kosmos](https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.02824) was used as one protein design tool.
For this submission, the prompts are provided as text files `prompt*.txt`.
For the two successful runs, output information is provided in subdirectories `output*`.
Failed prompts have error messages in text files `output*.txt`.
The data files provided as input are included in this directory.

## Adaptyv submission 1
Adaptyv submission 1 was based on `prompt5.txt` and [`output5`](output5).
Starting with the file `output5/final_synthesis_portfolio_v7.csv` generated by Kosmos, those ranked sequences were submitted in order.
The first 10 sequences were copied into `output5/submission1.fa.`
However, 8 were rejected for similarity (`output5/submission1-screening.txt`).
The accepted sequences retained, and the next candidates sequences from `output5/final_synthesis_portfolio_v7.csv` were added to create `output5/submission2.fa.`, and so forth.
It took 7 attempts to get 10 valid sequences, which required Kosmos sequences up to index 43 (1-based).
`output5/submission7.fa.`was entirely valid and became the final submission.

The metadata provided was
```
Assign design method
Method name
Kosmos
Description
Kosmos is an AI Scientist from Edison Scientific (https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.02824). It runs many cycles of iterative data analyses and/or literature searches to generate discoveries from an input prompt and optional datasets. These discoveries are summarized into a referenced report.
```

```
Submission overview
The designed sequences were generated using the Kosmos AI Scientist from Edison Scientific. Kosmos was provided a prompt describing the competition rules, the protein structure 2VSM.pdb, Adaptyv's description of Surface Plasmon Resonance from its website, and a request to return 100 ranked candidate designs. It produced a .csv file with 100 ranked amino acid sequences and various metrics it derived. The submitted sequences are the top-ranked sequences from this list that passed the submission validity filters, i.e., excluding those that are too similar to published proteins.

The complete Kosmos prompt, output .csv file, generated report, and link to its shared results will be provided from https://github.com/gitter-lab/adaptyvbio-nipah.
```

The submission results from https://proteinbase.com/collections/nipah-binder-competition-submission-1-qYFdXgOpyS were downloaded as `output5/proteinbase_collection_nipah-binder-competition-submission-1-qYFdXgOpyS.csv`
As shown in the leaderboard snapshot, even at the time of submission this method was not competitive with Average ipSAE 0.441.
However, no further Kosmos submissions were run because the goal was to evaluate how well an AI scientist would perform with minimal tuning.
The initial submission process immediately revealed that Kosmos was unable to comply with the request in the prompt that "proteins should be at least 10 amino acids from any published sequence".

## Kosmos outputs
Links to the full Kosmos runs:
- [prompt 1](https://platform.edisonscientific.com/kosmos/4f9aa24a-eab6-4dbd-8e10-6577e5fb95ce)
- [prompt 5](https://platform.edisonscientific.com/kosmos/1209e2f5-15b3-4355-aff9-e8b6b08a6787)

Intermediate artifacts from the `prompt5` run used for the submission are also available in the `output5/intermediate` subdirectory.
In some cases, the filename was prepended with `task<n>_` when it was too generic.
